New Entry: Java Iterator & Terms (#801)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/iterator/iterator.md

---
Title: 'Iterator'

> Description: 'An iterator is a java object that allows code to step through collections.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'An iterator is a Java object that allows code to step through collections.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Collections'
  - 'Iterators'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> An **iterator** is a java object that allows code to step through collections. Java has `Iterator` and `ListIterator` objects. The main difference between the two is that `ListIterator` allows bidirectional trasversal of collections. The `ListIterator` can only be retrieved from collections that implement the `List` interface. They are both imported through the `java.util` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An **iterator** is an object that allows code to step through collections. Java has `Iterator` and `ListIterator` objects, both imported through the `java.util` package. The main difference between the two is that `ListIterator` allows for the bidirectional traversal of collections. The `ListIterator` can only be retrieved from collections that implement the `List` interface.
```

> ## Syntax
> 
> An iterator is retrieved with the following syntax:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Syntax

```

```pseudo

> 
> Iterator value = collection.iterator()
> 
> ListIterator listvalue = listcollection.listIterator()
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Iterator value = collection.iterator()

ListIterator listvalue = listcollection.listIterator()
```

```

Collections have an `.iterator()` method that returns an `Iterator` object. List collections also have a `.listIterator()` method that return a `ListIterator` object

## Example

> The following example uses an `Iterator` to traverse an `ArrayList`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses an `Iterator` to traverse an [`ArrayList`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/array-list):
```
